#### Chapter 9 Self Test Answers

1) **throwable**.

2) **try** and **catch** are used by placing code which could _throw_ an exception within the **try** block and then including any desired handling functionality within the **catch** block. E.g.

```java
try {
	// do something which could throw an exception.
} catch( Exception e ) {
	// handle exception as required.
}
```

3) The **try** block is missing. 

4) In an exception is not caught explicitly by a **catch** block then it will be caught by the JVM and handled by the _default exception handler_.  This terminates execution and displays a stack trace and error message.

5) The subclass **catch** block can never be reached.  The **catch** block for the subclass _B_ should be placed before the superclass _A_ **catch** block.

6) Yes.

7) False.  The **finally** block is only the code executed when execution leaves a **try**/**catch** block.

8) All exceptions that are not subclasses of **Error** or **RuntimeException** need to be specified in the _throws_ clause.

9) _MyClass_ does not extend **Throwable**.

10) See [Stack.java] (src/com/selftest/stack/Stack.java)

11) The three ways an exception can be generated are:
 1. The JVM can generate an exception in response to an internal error.
 2. Standard exceptions generated by errors in the code (divide-by-zero, array index out-of-bounds etc)
 3. Manually generated exceptions using the **throw** statement.

12) **Error** and **Exception**.

13) The _multi-catch_ feature is where a single **catch** block can be used to handle multiple exceptions. E.g.

```java
try {
	// ...
} catch( BufferOverflowException | BufferUnderflowException e ) {
	e.printStackTrace();
}
```

14) No.