# MCM Chapter 9 Answers

**Q1**: The top of the Exception hierarchy is `Throwable`

**Q2**: Try wraps a block of code which can throw an error. Catch is defined directly after the try and catches specified errors thrown by the block surrounded by try{}

Used like this:

````java
	try{
		//Do something that throws and exception
	}
	catch(Exception e){
		//Catch all exceptions
	}
````

**Q3**: It doesn't have a try block, so won't catch the error. In fact I'm not sure it'll even compile with no try block, but even if it does - its bad news.

**Q4**: If an exception is not caught then a runtime error will occur and the Java program will stop. Exception handling allows for graceful failure to avoid the program crashing.

**Q5**: Exception "B" will never be caught as it is a subclass of "A" and since "A" is caught first any instance of "B" will be caught by the catch for "B". The fix for this is to change the ordering, so that "B" is caught first.

**Q6**: Yes, an inner catch can thrown an exception to an outer catch.

**Q7**: Not true. The finally block is **ALWAYS** run after a try / catch block regardless of whether an exeption occurred. Commonly used to clean up open resources, etc. The rest of the program will continue to function after the finally block.

**Q8**: Checked exceptions need to be explicitly declared in a throws clause, as the compiler checks if they are thrown. Unchecked exceptions do not need to be declared in a throws clause.

**Q9**: MyClass does not extend Throwable so cannot be thrown.

**Q10**: See Java code

**Q11**: Exceptions can be generated by the JVM, standard exceptions can be thrown due to an error (e.g., NullPointerException), and exceptions can be thrown in the code.

**Q12**: Exception and Error

**Q13**: The multi catch feature was introduced in Java 7 to allow a catch block to catch more than one exception using the following syntax:

```java
	try{
		//..do something
	}
	catch(ExceptionA a | ExceptionB b){
		//handle these exceptions
	}
```

**Q14**: Java code should **NOT** typically catch exceptions of type error, as they are unlikely to be code related, and are quite rarely thrown.

